# Internationalization

Internationalization is a very important core function of `Infernus`. Even if you don't consider it in the process of developing a script, you need to know at least the [player internationalization](#player-internationalization) section, otherwise you may encounter common situations such as garbled codes.

## VSCode plugin

[infernus-starter](https://github.com/dockfries/infernus-starter) provides the plugin installation recommendation file `.vscode/ extensions.json`. It is highly recommended that you click install in the prompt in the lower right corner of `VSCode`, so that you can easily and intuitively view international data during development.

`i18n-ally-custom-framework.yml` and `settings.json` The configuration file related to the plugin has been set up for you.

## Example

### Define language pack

The language pack consists of the data of the `.json` file. **the tree structure is used as the language pack data `key`**.

The defined string data can contain `%s` as a placeholder keyword to populate the data.

#### Chinese language pack

```json
{
  "server": {
    "running": "成功运行由 node.js 强力驱动的 omp 服务器",
    "connection": "连接信息: %s - %s : %s"
  }
}
```

#### English language pack

```json
{
  "server": {
    "running": "Successfully running an omp server powered by node.js",
    "connection": "connection information: %s - %s : %s"
  }
}
```

### Instance

Get an internationalization example through `new I18n("default region key", "language pack")`.

Usually we only need to use the `$t` function.

`$t("language pack data key", [placeholder array], region key)` can get the text in the corresponding language pack.

Instead of passing a placeholder array, you can replace it with `null` or `undefined` or an empty array when the string does not have a placeholder.

Not passing in the third parameter means fetching data from the default locale.

```ts
import { I18n } from "@infernus/core";

// Internationalized json language Pack
import zh_CN from "./locales/zh_CN.json";
import en_US from "./locales/en_US.json";

const locales = {
  zh_CN,
  en_US,
};

export const { $t } = new I18n("en_US", locales);

console.log($t("server.running"));
console.log($t("server.connection", ["127.0.0.1", "8080", "123456"]));
console.log($t("server.connection", ["127.0.0.1", "8080", "123456"], "zh_CN"));
```

### Practical functions

`I18n` class also has several practical **static functions** that you can try when you encounter conversions between internationalization.

- encodeToBuf
  - A byte array used to convert a substring to a specified charset.
- decodeFromBuf
  - A string used to convert a byte array to a specified charset.
- getValidStr
  - If you intercept a valid string in a byte array, the first `0` is encountered, which is regarded as the end of the string.

## Player internationalization

There are two attributes on the player instance to control internationalization, namely `charset` and `locale`, corresponding to the charset and region, respectively.
The default values are as follows:

```ts
class Player {
  charset = "ISO-8859-1";
  locale = "en_US";
}
```

Usually `$t` combines the player's region to get the corresponding language pack data.

```ts
// Suppose you have an instance of player
console.log(
  $t("server.incoming", ["127.0.0.1", "8080", "123456"], player.locale),
);
```

If you want to modify the player's language or charset, you should modify the player's `charset` and `locale` attributes. Always make sure that the player's `charset` is correct. You can use the `ip` address to guess the player's area, and let the player enter a specific string and compare bytes to figure out what charset it is.

### supportAllNickname

::: tip
By default, the game server only allows letters, numbers and underlined usernames to connect to the game.
:::

Because `omp` provides some new `api`, you can disable / enable certain characters (decimal bytes 0-255) for user names to connect to the server.

The `GameMode.supportAllNickname()` **method makes use of the new api to connect all international usernames, including any characters such as Chinese characters, to the game.**

```ts
import { GameMode } from "@infernus/core";

GameMode.onInit(({ next }) => {
  GameMode.supportAllNickname();
  return next();
});
```

## Principle

:::warning
Two-way charset data exchange is normal on the premise that the player's charset is correct.

If the wrong charset is set, both the server and the client will get garbled code.
:::

`Infernus` use `iconv-lite` convert charset,use `polyfill.amx` intercept `gamemode` part of the callback is returned as a decimal byte array.

The server converts the charset to the client side functions such as `SendClientMessage`, `SendClientMessageToAll`, `ShowPlayerDialog` and `CreateDynamic3DTextLabel`, that is, the `utf8` data is converted into the player's charset data to ensure that the player can display the data normally.

Charset conversion from client to server, such as `OnText`, `OnPlayerCommandText`, `OnDialogResponse`, has been done to ensure that the data exchange between the server and the client is correct.

::: tip
Although the charset has been converted, the characters of `utf8` that are not included in the player's charset will still be displayed in the form of garbled codes, such as `?`, which is limited by the underlying code of the early `sa` game. For example, only the charset of western fonts `emoji` or Chinese characters will be garbled when received by `emoji`.
:::

For `Infernus`, the underlying layer of `Infernus` always exchanges data in the format of `utf8`, because the implementation of the two is based on the existing algorithm of mapping files, which is similar to the concept of sprite image in the front end, rather than the real text data. Some client modules, such as Chinese patches, use `utf8` at the bottom to display commonly used words, but all the `utf8` fonts cannot be listed in one map. This is very unreasonable and the effect is certainly not as good as that of text data.

For `sa` definitive edition, it must be implemented internally using `utf8`. If `omp` launches definitive edition online in the future, no additional processing should be required.

## Terminal garbled characters

If you encounter garbled characters in the terminal when using logger such as `pino.js`, you can try the following commands to resolve the issue.

For `PowerShell` users, execute the command below (effective only for the current terminal session).

If you want this change to be permanent, add the command to your [$PROFILE](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_profiles?view=powershell-7.4).

```powershell
$OutputEncoding = [Console]::InputEncoding = [Console]::OutputEncoding = New-Object System.Text.UTF8Encoding
```

For `cmd` users, use the following command to run your omp server.

```sh
cmd /c "chcp 65001 > nul & omp-server"
```

The above command changes the charset of `PowerShell` or `cmd` to `UTF-8`.

For other environments, please search for solutions on your own.
